feat: running locally through dev container (#8677)
argoproj/argo-workflows: docs/running-locally.md

# Running Locally

> You have the option to use development container or install requirements by yourself

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have two options:

1. If you're using VSCode, you use the Dev Container.
1. Install the requirements on your computer manually.
```

> ## Git clone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Git Clone
```

Close the Git repo into: `$(GOPATH)/src/github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows`. Any other path will mean the code
generation does not work.

> ## Development container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Development Container
```

A development container is a running Docker container with a well-defined tool/runtime stack and its prerequisites.
[The Visual Studio Code Remote - Containers](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers)  extension lets you use a Docker container as a full-featured development environment.

System requirements can be found [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers#_system-requirements)

> note:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note-:
```

> * to use development container, we assume the `GOPATH` to be `/go`, please make sure the repository is cloned to the right place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `GOPATH` must be `/go`.
```

> * for **Apple Silicone**
>   * user need to change `VARIANT` from `buster` to `bullseye` in both `./devcontainer/devcontainer.json` and `./devcontainer/Dockerfile` before building the development container
>   * user need to configure Docker Desktop with the following for Docker Engine before building the development container
> 
>     ```json
>     "features": {
>       "buildkit": false
>     },
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* for **Apple Silicone**
  * Change `VARIANT` from `buster` to `bullseye` in `./devcontainer/devcontainer.json` and `./devcontainer/Dockerfile` before building the development container.
  * Configure Docker Desktop to use BuildKit:

    ```json
    "features": {
      "buildkit": false
    },
    ```
```

* For **Windows WSL2**

>   * it is recommended to configure [`.wslconfig`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl-config#configuration-setting-for-wslconfig) to limit your ram usage by the WSL2. This prevents WSL2 use up all of the memory and causing VSCode to OOM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Configure [`.wslconfig`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl-config#configuration-setting-for-wslconfig) to limit memory usage by the WSL2 to prevent VSCode OOM.
```

# Running Locally

You have two options:

1. If you're using VSCode, you use the Dev-Container. This takes about 7 minutes. Pre-commit checks take about 4 minutes to run.

> 1. Install the requirements on your computer manually. This takes about 30 minutes. Pre-commit checks take about 3 minutes to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install the requirements on your computer manually. This takes about 1 hour. Pre-commit checks take about 3 minutes to run.
```

## Git Clone

Close the Git repo into: `$(GOPATH)/src/github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows`. Any other path will mean the code
generation does not work.

## Development Container

A development container is a running Docker container with a well-defined tool/runtime stack and its prerequisites.
[The Visual Studio Code Remote - Containers](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers)  extension lets you use a Docker container as a full-featured development environment.

System requirements can be found [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers#_system-requirements)

Note:

* `GOPATH` must be `/go`.

> * for **Apple Silicone**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* for **Apple Silicon**
```

  * Configure Docker Desktop to use BuildKit:

    ```json
    "features": {
      "buildkit": false
    },
    ```

* For **Windows WSL2**
  * Configure [`.wslconfig`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl-config#configuration-setting-for-wslconfig) to limit memory usage by the WSL2 to prevent VSCode OOM.

> 

Reviewer: Can you add steps on how to run `make pre-commit -B` in the dev container? I could not figure that out.

Author: Do you mean something like and if we need more detail than this?

1.  open powershell and check, make sure your wsl version is 2 `wsl --list --verbose`
2. In wsl, clone argo-workflows to `/home/$USER/go/src/github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows`
3. in vscode, use "Open Folder in Container" to open the step2 location. The Windows explorer path would be something like `\\wsl$\Ubuntu\home\USER\go\src\github.com\argoproj\argo-workflows`
4. you can run `make pre-commit -B` after successful dev-container build and open in vscode
